# Opensource Maintenance and Communication 
### Opensource projects communicate and maintain code by communicating expectations and keeping the conversation friendly. Communicating the pruprose behind your project and your goals and circumstances when developing the project. For example, those who come across your project want to know if this is a side-project, if you are getting paid, when you plan on getting it done, any functionalities that have been implemented or have yet to be implemented should be well-documented. An important aspect of this is learning to say no to those who submit pull requests that don't match your vision, or the main funtionality that you wanted to implement. This is an important aspect because in order for opensource software to be successful, such as canvas, rails etc, you need to understand that you can not please everybody and that at times people will not provide beneficial contributions and you have to do what is best for your project. 

### Opensource projects use github to organize their issues and bugs as it is a powerful tool for maintaining such documentation and progress. In terms of how people can contribute, it is important to note that not all open source projects operate the same way. However, you can find a contribution guide which usually has all kinds of information for new contributors to follow. For example, Angular's contribution guideline, has extensive information on what to do if you find a bug (submit an issue, and even better submit a pull request) and submission guidelines for submitting issues and/or pull request to ensure that an issue being submitted is not redunant and already exists, or has been fixed etc. These open source projects determine which code is accepted by specifiying that they have the right to not accept a pull-request, they may also require updates to the code submitted before finalizing the pull-request and they ask that when you change the code (as they suggest) that you submit an updated commit message, and they will then accept your request and they ask that you delete your branch.  